England is in need of
a jolly good scare.
Blow up the observatory?
I give you a month.
Can you supply a bomb?
I can supply a bomb.
Will you explode it?
Tell Heat it's The Strand next.
'The Professor's on an omnibus.'
Get a message sent he's
not to be approached!
Do you know what
a secret is, Stevie?
Not even Winnie must know.
Despite what you said,
we are a true family.
Could be father and son.
Advertise your product or brand here
contact www.OpenSubtitles.org today
'Mr Michaelis is going to my
cottage in Kent to write a book.'
Stevie!
We've got a job to do. This is a
serious business we're doing here.
This new thing between them,
I'm so hopeful about it.
Tell yourself that lie, but imagine
more than just a day with me.
Who have you supplied?
Who have you supplied?!
- I'll go for you!
- Stevie!
- No! - I'm a good boy.
He's having the time of his
life, Winnie. He's climbing trees.
What do we do about this Verloc?
In my opinion, offer him immunity
from prosecution in exchange for
everything he can tell us.
Is there a body here?
It's not a body. It's just a mess.
You've no idea what's
happened, have you?
'He said he was climbing trees,
getting his trousers dirty.'
He said he was having fun.
Not all of it was blown to bits.
She knows.
She's waiting for you.
'EXPLOSION'
BELL TINKLES
I saw Heat leave.
I spoke to him, actually.
At least you know now.
About Stevie.
I'm sorry I kept it from you.
I didn't know how to...
You do see that, don't you?
But if...
..you let me explain...
Look...
Yes, I got Stevie involved,
but I had to, Winnie.
I've had no choice in any of this.
I take payments from
the Russian embassy.
I suppose I'm a spy, and...
They wanted an explosion, and
if I didn't give it to them...
The way he was using me, Winnie.
Threatening me.
If I hadn't agreed to do it, what
would have become of us all?
So...
I showed Stevie what
I was doing, it's true.
He was never meant to be the
one who actually planted it.
I meant the boy no harm.
And how could he just...
..come in here and blurt
it out to you like that?
I've been sat in the
pub for hours, just...
thinking of a way to tell you,
and he just waltzes in.
You know what his problem is?
He thinks it's just information.
It's the policeman in him.
It's unforgivable.
No empathy at all.
'We have to go for Verloc.
'Not bargain with him,
but detain him.'
Prosecution?
I put it to the Attorney General
about making use of him.
Wasn't keen at all. Had had a word with
the Foreign Secretary, if you ask me.
And their thinking?
Foreign spies on our soil
immune from the rule of law?
We turn a blind eye, we
just look blind. Or feeble.
So, we need to make an
example of Verloc?
Yes. But, ultimately,
the only way is to make the
employment of these spies
unpleasant to their employers.
Very well, Home Secretary, I shall...
..approach his employer.
If I'm taken away...
..you'll need your wits about you.
You need to start thinking
about tomorrow.
So, you need to...
You can't sit here like this.
You could look at me, Winnie.
I knew you'd take it hard.
But you've got to see
the whole picture.
And... there's still the two of us.
And...being like this...
well, it...it won't bring
him back, will it?
What will?
- What?
- What will bring him back?
Nothing.
Did he scream?
He felt no pain.
I'm sure of it.
How do you know?
I'm not screaming.
I feel so trapped with it.
I thought it'd be an end
to all our troubles,
and it's ended up being
nothing of the sort.
But this...
Well, they'll take me away, but...
..if you were to wait for me...
..and...and then shop to
keep going while...
while I'm detained, we
could pick up again.
I've been to prison before,
it won't affect me.
It's safer in there
than running away.
Please, Winnie.
Don't be a fool.
I kept calling Stevie back.
But he wouldn't listen to me.
He took it upon himself
to carry the bomb.
Why did he have to be...
wilful like that?
We are rather surprised that you've
insisted on so immediate an appointment.
We?
I don't think this appointment involves
you being in the room, Privy Councillor.
I meant that you had
more pressing engagements.
This bomb outrage,
the safety of London.
That's exactly why I'm here.
Greenwich being a symptom, the
cause perhaps here in Kensington.
We know that Verloc
planted the bomb.
- Verloc?
- You know him.
You employ him.
What makes you say that?
I say nothing of the sort,
my inspector says it.
He also makes use of him,
and uses your little secret
as leverage against him.
Do you remember when you
accused me of complacency,
accused every Government agency?
Well, you could say we've
taken your advice.
An end to tolerance.
And what do you intend to do
with this Verloc, deport him?
No.
We rather thought a prosecution would
best demonstrate to the public
both the danger and the indecency.
You really think you'd induce a
man like this to admit anything?
Absolutely, if he thought
his punishment to be mitigated.
And, if not, we have a wealth
of detail in any case.
We have a joint enemy.
The anarchists, not each other.
We're well aware of the
genuine article.
That's why we can't be
distracted by shams like this.
And so you will prosecute Verloc?
I wonder how efficient the
prosecution of the Professor
will make you look.
The public will be happy to know
that we've foiled an outrage.
That a man with a bomb strapped to him
was roaming the streets of London?
That bomb didn't go off.
Yours did.
Our arrangement...
..was always that you took
no interest in my affairs.
That's how it's worked.
You always said things
didn't bear much looking into.
In fact, Winnie...
..you looked the other way.
I made it easy.
I made it easy for you to...
You mustn't spend too long
blaming yourself, Winnie.
What matters now is...
..how we go along together.
You've no idea what a bastard
I've been dealing with.
What a jeering,
pitiless, dangerous bastard!
VERLOC: 'There isn't an anarchist plot
in the last 11 years I haven't thwarted.
'The scores of revolutionaries
that I've dispatched...'
I could be stabbed in the back at
any time, he wouldn't give a damn.
If you want someone
to blame, blame him.
I don't understand a
word you're saying.
What's done can't be undone.
You know what you need?
Good cry.
Because you haven't.
It's not natural.
These things...
They have to come out.
Emotion, I mean.
Going for a rest?
Bit of peace and quiet,
yeah, that...
That'll do you the world of good.
FOOTSTEPS AND DOOR
CLOSING UPSTAIRS
'Calm me down, Winnie.'
STAIRCASE CREAKS
Flying off to your mother's?
No sense going now.
She'll have gone to bed by
the time you get there.
This is the sort of
news that can wait.
Tonight, your place is
here with me, Winnie.
Just take off your hat and sit down.
I can't just let you go...
wandering about outside.
I just can't have it.
And this veil...
I barely know who I'm talking to.
That's better.
Not that you're saying anything
back to me, anyway.
Perhaps because you know it was you who
kept shoving the boy in my direction.
What made you do it?
Look, this...this deaf-and-dumb
act, it's gone too far.
At least his troubles are over now,
whereas ours are just beginning.
We ought to start thinking
about what we're going to do.
I can't have you galloping
off to your mother
with some crazy tale or
other about me. I won't have it.
I wish I'd never seen Greenwich Park.
"A nice walk."
Winnie...
"Imagine how good a few days
in Kent would be for him."
- "Me and him in the countryside..."
- Let it lie now, Winnie.
No more trouble.
"Could be father and son."
No more.
Winnie...
Yes.
Come here.
(Murderess.)
You're here.
Only because I thought you would be.
Sit down with me.
I was on my way to you.
I thought so much about you,
since I read about the bombing.
I'm very sorry.
Will you help me?
No-one is more ready to help
you in your trouble.
Do you know what my trouble is?
I couldn't be absolutely
sure from the newspaper report,
but now you appear like this, I...
I understand exactly what happened.
What will I do?
Winnie, you...you are free now.
Truly.
I can't be.
No.
Unless...
people understand perhaps
what happened.
Verloc brought about his
own death when he...
He was a bastard to me.
Yes.
But not me, Winnie.
You'll take me away?
You will let me escape with you?
You have done so before?
- Run away?
- Yes.
We can run away together.
We can go anywhere.
Tom, there's some money.
- If we go...
- Verloc's money?
He kept it hidden away, you see.
The money's...at the shop, Tom.
All of it.
You deserve it. And we can
make a life with it?
Yes.
You forgot to shut the door.
BELL TINKLES
Show me.
I've left the light on
in the parlour.
The money's in there, on the shelf.
How can this be?
HE INHALES SHARPLY
Haven't you guessed what
I was driven to do?
You will save me, Tom?
Please, don't let them hang me.
You did this thing all by yourself?
Yes.
Where's Stevie?
Blown to bits in Greenwich Park.
Verloc took him away
and murdered him.
And then came back, like any other
man would come back to his wife.
So, you just...
stabbed him to death?
He was resting on the sofa
after his supper.
Resting easy.
"Come here," he said to me...
..after he's killed my Stevie..
my baby.
So I came all right.
What did he expect?
He took the heart out of me.
Please, Tom.
The money's in the box over there.
Don't throw me off now, Tom.
It's been years since
I made an arrest.
- Good to get my feet out from under the desk.
- Sure.
This has to look conspicuous, Heat.
Show them how serious
we are about it.
You had other plans for
Verloc yesterday.
That was yesterday.
RAUCOUS VOICES BEHIND WALL
You will save me from the hangman?
If they find us, they'll
say it's a conspiracy.
That I am your accomplice.
So you're wedded to me, whether
you like it or not.
I'm very happy that our fates
are to be bound together.
That we will be together.
Are you cold?
Not here.
Are you?
No.
This is...
A revenge attack?
One of his own, perhaps?
I was thinking more in the way of a
husband killed and a... missing wife.
Are we in the presence
of a domestic drama?
And I'm supposed to go to the
Home Secretary and...tell him, what,
that our foreign policy
has been thwarted by...
a bloody carving knife?
Find her.
Do you suppose Verloc
volunteered the part
he played in her brother's death?
Never.
Then, who did?
Find her.
Alert every constable on the beat.
Get men at every train terminal.
I'll pay a visit to the mother.
Between us all, we should find her.
We did wish them more vigilant.
- Yes, not so much that they'd...
- Start a diplomatic incident?
If they get Verloc in that
dock and make him talk,
the embarrassment that will cause
our government. I will be recalled,
for God's sake!
Rather more than recalled, I fear.
Wurmt.
Wurmt!
- Verloc! - First Secretary?
- Bring him here.
Bring him here, before the
police take hold of him.
- I can summon him.
- No, no, we need to act now.
We need to get him smuggled out
of the country as soon as possible.
Well, go! Take somebody with you.
I am merely a privy counsellor,
First Secretary. Clerical.
The boat leaves
Southampton at midnight.
- Will we be safe?
- Let's get to Paris first,
the best way we can.
Paris?
And then?
Wherever we can be left in peace.
BELL RINGS
I'll buy the tickets to
Saint-Malo. Let's go separately.
We mustn't be seen together.
Stay out of sight.
Some trouble here?
What business would you
have here, sir?
Oh, nothing but curiosity.
Someone killed?
The, er, shop owner?
Were you acquainted with him, sir?
Well, merely as a customer.
But if you asked me were I, erm...
He's dead? Murdered?
Well...this is some
news, is it not?
As for myself, I shall thank
God to be safely in my bed tonight.
I should never have left them.
SHE SOBS
I promise you, madam...
your son felt no pain.
But you cannot say the
same for Winnie.
Two returns to Southampton, please.
Thank you.
Sir?
Your change, sir.
LONG WHISTLE
- Stevie!
- BOY CHUCKLES
SHE GASPS
Sir.
Poor woman could hardly speak.
But she feels if there was
a man she may have formed
an association with,
it would be Ossipon.
He was kind to Stevie.
Any clue from her mother as to
where they may have run to?
Well, Winnie only knows London.
Ossipon's European.
Then France, sir?
Madam.
Ticket, please.
Thank you, madam.
SHE GASPS
Relatives in Southampton, ma'am?
Er, no.
So, what takes you there?
I'm going to get the...
midnight boat from there.
- The midnight boat to Saint-Malo.
- Saint-Malo?
And unaccompanied?
That's quite an adventure, ma'am.
Yes. I'm joining my husband there.
What is your husband's
business there?
He's an importer.
Wine and other things.
No luggage, ma'am?
- I intend to come back soon.
- Soon?
WHISTLE
Tomorrow, in fact.
My husband rents a
cottage in Saint-Malo.
I have belongings there.
The Southampton-Malo train
leaves at 10:30.
Portsmouth, ten minutes after that.
I'll board one train and
you the other.
I have a return ticket
to Southampton.
Have a good passage, ma'am.
Thank you.
All aboard! Last call
for Southampton!
All aboard, please!
- Right, you check the Portsmouth train.
- Sir.
- Any couples boarding the Southampton train?
- Several.
Anything about any
of them in particular?
Just one woman travelling
without luggage, sir.
- Why didn't you detain her? - She said she
was joining her husband in Saint-Malo.
Best we sit in different
compartments, until Southampton.
Yeah.
What's Saint-Malo like, Tom?
Intra-Muros.
A citadel - a walled city.
- And everyone's safe within?
- That was always the plan.
Good.
TRAIN WHISTLE SOUNDS
'Look, Winnie, the circles!
'Look at the circles, Winnie!
Ah, they're wonderful.
'That was wonderful!'
What's wrong?
We're getting off at the next stop.
Tell him, Winnie.
Tell him!
It was me.
It was all me.
I put a knife in him and
then I went to seek Tom.
I wasn't even there.
And you think you can escape
this? You harboured her.
And here you are now,
engineering her escape.
And what's your role in
this offence, Inspector?
You provoked her.
- I had to tell her.
- She killed Verloc soon after your visit!
- Yes, SHE killed Verloc!
- You delivered him! You...
..gave her the motivation.
Sit down!
- I'm a policeman.
- And Verloc had made a fool of you.
I wanted Verloc hung, not murdered.
And now you will organise
our deaths, too.
Will that be justice for you?
You saw Stevie's body.
You went through what
was left of him.
Please, let me go.
The law can't punish me any more.
Have pity, for God's sake.
I had his...supper ready...
..as I always did.
I had the knife...laid out
for him, as it always was.
TRAIN COMES TO A HALT
Be careful.
- DISTANT SHOUT:
- All aboard! Southampton train!
He's...
He's let us go.
He's going to overlook the crime.
He doesn't wish our
punishment for it.
Does this mean they'll stop
looking for us altogether?
It means Heat has
compromised himself.
It means that they can't...
My God...
Could you imagine how it would look if
they tried to prosecute us in the future?
The embarrassment his merciful
judgment would cause them?
They'd have to think twice.
We wouldn't even have
to defend ourselves.
But we can't go back.
No, of course not.
Anyway, it doesn't matter, does it?
Because we don't need to go back.
We're going to cross that
channel and never look back.
Never.
You can show us where to run.
You know how to keep
the world at bay.
On neither train?
No, sir.
We had such a case within our grasp.
Verloc.
A foreign conspiracy to
undermine our morale, our law.
A political cause celebre taken away.
Now, the only way to be political about
it is to say it wasn't political at all -
to say we don't have
that kind of violence here.
There's still the Professor, sir.
Just put it out that we're
still looking for her.
The berserk wife of the man
who ran the questionable
little shop on Brett Street.
As for the Professor,
I've got a different plan.
And Ossipon?
A domestic drama, Chief Inspector.
Did you let them go?
Your sense of natural justice
getting the better of the law?
Pragmatism taking over?
I don't think I'm that
kind of policeman, sir.
HE CHUCKLES
Am I such a scourge as that?
Well, I will not be alone!
Others will see what I have done,
and they will follow suit!
- MAN: - Packet to Saint-Malo!
Packet to Saint-Malo!
I'll go and buy the tickets for the
crossing then meet you by the ferry.
Winnie, we have to
be on our guard.
We have to know exactly
what we're doing.
And to know exactly what you want.
I know what I want.
One ticket for Saint-Malo, please.
Thanks.
You're appearing in court
first thing tomorrow.
The man who had to be stopped
from performing a catastrophic act.
And how our brave
policemen managed that.
No.
The state prefers to pretend
that you were no threat at all.
Instead of conspiracy to endanger
life, you'll face a lesser charge -
possessing explosives under
suspicious circumstances.
What?!
What are you talking about?!
You, and the whole Verloc affair,
are to be completely smothered.
Get off!
- Get in.
- Hey!
You're not playing
the game, Inspector!
- Heat!
- DOOR SLAMS
You call me a pest?
YOU'RE the pest!
I'll not be insignificant!
I will not be nothing!
SEA BIRDS CRY
Thank you.
Tom!
TOM!
Excuse me.
Please, will you... Tom!
Please, don't leave me!
Tom!
Tom, I'm begging you!
I'm begging you, Tom!
Tom!
Are you going by the boat, ma'am?
This way, ma'am.
Take me to Soho!
Take me to a bar.
In this time of turmoil...
..I wish to introduce a young man
who, since his own troubled past,
has learned to be at
peace with himself.
He will give a reading tonight
of what he has been
putting his mind to.
The future.
Are the hopeful...
always to be crushed...
by those who do not have
the courage of that virtue?
Do the strong simply entrench
their strength in society
at the expense of the weak?
Are the imprisoned always
to wait for their release
and their forgiveness?
Is society simply a version...
..of that brutal prison
I spent my last 15 years in?
Do those in chains simply await
the end of their sentence -
their far-from-glorious deliverance?
(Circles...)
Or is there a better institution
that we can be founded on?
Where justice will open up
its loving arms to the innocent.
Where the strong will help the weak.
None abandoned or forgotten.
Pity and compassion prevailing.
A world of welfare, improvement,
and rehabilitation for all.
Good health...
..true happiness...
..and a good life.
CHATTER
(Ossipon.)
GATE SLAMS
You think you can do this,
the art of pretence?
IN RUSSIAN:
All went well?
He believes me.
Well, you're a very
believable fella.
The Home Secretary told
the Milan Conference
that the British were fully in
control of any anarchist threat,
and no draconian clamp-down
was necessary.
"British values," he stated,
"must be protected from
foreign interference."
Very good, sir.
And how are things at your end?
This belonged to Winnie.
What happened?
Support us and become VIP member
to remove all ads from www.OpenSubtitles.org